So next if we look at our App,
we wanna work on these project cards here.
So first of all, make the project card,
and then second,
we'll figure out where
we're gonna get the data,
how we're gonna get the data, and
then we'll go from there, sound good?
Okay, so if we go to the project
cards section here on the notes,
the project card is
really not that special.
There's some stuff in here that
is maybe worth talking about.
So we can do that mostly around
some of the TypeScript stuff that
I'm doing here with Prisma,
which is kinda cool.
So we could talk about that.
So let's go into our components,
Folder, and make a project card.
There we go.
I don't know why it did that.
Cool, so I'm gonna do a couple
things here on the imports.
Bring in Prisma in here.
Like I said, I'm gonna do some
TypeScript stuff with Prisma.
We're gonna use the card component
cuz it's a card and clsx for helping
me write classNames without backticks and
pluses cuz I hate doing that.
So the project card is a component for
each one of these cards.
So as a prop, you probably imagine
it needs to take in a project so
it can actually show this information.
So you can see right now
it takes to this date.
This date is when it was created at.
This is the name of the project.
This is how many tasks
are completed out of total.
So it needs all the tasks, and
then it calculates the percentage.
So it needs a few amount of some
stuff there for sure for projects.
So we get that for free automatically
as far as those types through Prisma,
because Prisma creates a Typesafe client
for us that's already got the props.
We just gotta find a way to
translate that to a React prop.
So we can actually do that
pretty effectively here.
So the first thing we wanna do is
we wanna create this object here,
which is gonna be something we
get using Prisma.validator.
So what we can say is, what did I
call it here, project with tasks.
And we can say Prisma.validator,
like this.
And that's gonna take a generic like this.
So this generic is gonna
be Prisma.ProjectArgs.
So let's talk about this.
One, a generic is just like
an argument for a type.
That's the best way I can describe it.
Some types are dynamic,
as in you might have a type for
a function that returns something,
but its value,
the type of what it returns is dependent
on the arguments that it's passed.
So you need a generic to
have that be dynamic.
So in this case,
validator is taking a generic cuz it needs
an argument to what's gonna
affect what it returns.
And that argument is gonna
be Prisma.ProjectArgs.
ProjectArgs are gonna be the arguments
needed for us to make a project.
And we know what's needed
to make a project,
because if we go look at our schema,
it's everything that's required, right?
So it'd be like a name, a ownerId.
Yeah, it would just be those,
basically, a name, a ownerId.
Everything else either has a default or
it's already there, or it's not required.
So those will be the Args there.
So this isn't something built into Prisma,
this is something that was generated,
ProjectArgs, cuz there's a UserArgs,
right?
And then there's a TaskArgs, right,
that's generated from our schema.
So ProjectArgs here, And
then that's gonna be a function.
And that function is basically
a higher order function, or
we're gonna immediately invoke it, and
we're gonna pass in an object here.
And we're here, we just need to include
the tasks, because by default, oops,
by default, A project,
when you query it through Prisma,
when you query anything through Prisma
that has a relationship, for instance,
if I were to query a user, it by default
would not include the project or
the task, it has to mainly include them.
You can think of it as a join
table in SQL, or in Mongo,
I think it's called a population,
you can think of it like that.
So you have to mainly include it.
So we're just saying, yeah,
we want to make a type that looks
like the arguments for a project, but
also includes the tasks,
because projects could have tasks.
Right, I could also say include owner or
whatever if I had an owner there,
but we're not doing that.
Okay, so now that I have that,
I can use some TypeScript magic here.
And I can make a new type,
I'm gonna call it ProjectWithTask.
But I'm gonna use this type here
that also takes an argument,
Prisma.ProjectGetPayload.
So what is the payload of the project?
Well, I want it to be the type
of whatever ProjectWithTask is.
So I'm gonna say type projectWithTask =
Prisma.getProjects, or what is it,
al the way around, Project., oop,
One word, ProjectGetPayload, there we go.
That's a type that takes a generic here,
and
then I'm gonna say typeof,
Our projectWithTask.
So if you didn't know this in TypeScript,
you can tell TypeScript what a type
is by putting typeof in front
of it, Which is really cool.
So now we have a new type,
projectWithTasks, And
it's gonna be this type here.
So now we can actually use this for
our functional component.
So let's do that.
So we're gonna make our components.
We're gonna call this a ProjectCard.
We're gonna make it equal to that, and
then I'm gonna use FC for
functional component here.
That takes a generic.
What do you want your props to look like?
They're gonna look like
a projectWithTasks.
So we did all of that, so we didn't have
to just write our own interface like this
interface Projects, and then we just
put all the stuff that a project has.
That's not hard to do,
I mean, you could do that.
Problem is, if you do that, and then you
go change your project schema, in your
schema when you generate what it means to
be a project, you gotta change this too.
And you had to keep doing that over and
over and over again,
cuz this isn't gonna change automatically.
But if we rely on the stuff
generated from us through Prisma,
which is automatically changeable when
we do migrations and things like that,
then this code won't
ever have to be touched.
It'll just work, up until the point where
you no longer have tasks on projects,
I would assume.
So other than that, it's mostly just
a standard React component, but
we can go through it cuz there's
some JavaScript in here.
So let's go through it
through that JavaScript and
then we can just get the JSX
stuff out of the way.
So the first thing is,
if you go and look at the cards,
they have a date, so
we're gonna format that date.
I think this is where people
will pull in Moment, MomentJS,
a massive date library, but
that takes up half your app, if not more.
We don't need that, one,
because it's massive, two,
there's better things out there.
I think datef and s is way better.
But three, we can just do this
ourselves with a date object,
it's actually really easy to do.
So we'll make a function
called formatDate.
[COUGH] It takes in a date.
And if I can get my notes,
it's just going to make a new date out of
the date that we get back and
use this toLocalDateString, right?
So we can say date,
NewDate from the date .toLocalDateString,
or yeah, DateString, not TimeString.
That will just give me the time.
So that, we can do that.
And then from here, we just pass in our
locale, which is gonna be English US.
And then just the options you wanna use.
So in this case,
we can say we want the weekday to be long,
the year to be numeric, the month to
be short, and the day to be numeric.
So a little date format hack if
you've never used that before,
it's actually really simple.
I don't know why people
don't use this more.
Okay, so we got that.
Now, what we wanna do is we need
to compute the completed count.
So if we look at here, we need to know
how many were completed out of total,
and if you look at the six script
that we've made, it's random.
COMPLETED is, where is it, right here.
So the status, which can be COMPLETED,
NOT_STARTED, or STARTED is random.
So if you go to, you can see right here,
I'm just taking all these and
I'm literally doing a random one.
So we don't know how many it is,
so we can't hardcode it.
So we do have to compute it.
So what we will do is just
basically filter over them and
just grab the ones that are completed, and
then we will do some math to figure
out what is the percentage of that.
So let's do that, so completedCounts,
It's just gonna be, well,
we gotta get the project here.
There we go.
It's gonna be project.tasks.map.
Where is it,
let me export this right quick.
There we go.
Okay, I would imagine this
would give me some type checks.
Probably Project is not,
wait, I gotta do this,
I gotta say, project is that type.
There we go.
Okay, so
now I can say give me the project and
then I just wanna get the ones that
are project.status==='COMPLETED'.
I can use the text COMPLETED here,
but I can also import TASK_STATUS, and
I can say .COMPLETED there, which is
probably better, since this is a enum.
So if you make a enum in a Prisma schema,
you can import that enum into your
JavaScript and use the properties on
it versus remembering the strings,
which is really cool.
And then you can map that to a TypeScript
enum if you want, if you really wanna get
crazy, but you don't need to,
cuz that's basically what this is.
So we can say that, and
then we can do that .length.
So that'll give us how many are completed.
And then we can just look at the progress,
which is just a simple calculation here.
We're just basically saying, round
down completedCount divided by total.
That's gonna give you some percentage
decimal, multiply that back to 100 to get
it back to a whole number, and
that's the progress, so basic math there.
And then from there, it's mostly just JSX.
I'm just gonna copy that.
It's nothing special here.
I can go through and
talk about all the interpolated values.
So I'm just gonna rename my
function to formats, so formatDate.
But basically, all we're doing here is
we're putting a date here using our format
or formatDate function, passing in
project.createdAT, which is a timestamp.
I know that because it's right here,
created as a DateTime.
The next one is here, I'm just showing
the percentage that was completed.
That's the part that's
underneath the card or
underneath the bar that's
showing that right there.
I'm sorry, no,
that's that part right there.
This part is this number right here, so
the number completed divided by total,
that's that.
And then the bar itself is
actually pretty simple.
All it is is just you got one div here,
this background div,
that's just a different color and rounded.
And then you have another div that's
literally sitting on top of it.
And we're just changing the width of
the upper div based off the percentage.
So if it's 100% wide,
it'll go all the way.
If it's 20% wide, it'll go 20% of the way.
That's it, that's really all we're doing,
so you can look at the code here.
So you can see here's the rail,
the background div.
And then here's the upper div, the actual
bar, and the width is what's dynamic.
It's whatever the progress is percentage.
That's really it,
nothing else crazy about it.
The reason I had to make a style tag
versus just putting it in here with
Tailwind, cuz you can actually do
something like this in Tailwind where you
say w and you can put whatever number you
want here, pixels, percentage, whatever.
But it wouldn't work because Tailwind
statically looks at these classes to
determine what it should add.
And if it's dynamic,
which in this case it would have been
dynamic cuz we would need a progress,
it would have been something like w-,
It would have been something like that.
Tailwind can't read that.
It can't evaluate that JavaScript for us
cuz it's statically reading the classes.
Just like TypeScript is a static
analysis tool, so is Tailwind.
So it wouldn't have been
able to read that, so
I had to put a style tag here for that.
And then lastly, yeah,
just a progress percentage at the bottom.
Other than that, it's just regular
old JSX here, nothing crazy.